README.md, before:

[![Tests](https://github.com/ricardojob/psae/actions/workflows/tests.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ricardojob/psae/actions/workflows/tests.yaml)
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/psae)](https://pypi.org/project/psae/)

# PSAE

An automated tool for extracting Platform-Specific API from Git repositories written in Python. 
The `psae` (**P**latform-**S**pecific **A**PI **E**xtract) is primarily designed to be used as a command-line tool. 
With `psae`, you can easily extract information about the Platform-Specific APIs and their usages from the Git repository or directory (only python files are analyzed).
The set of Platform-Specific APIs are saved in a given CSV file.

## Install

The easiest way to install `psae` is to install from Pypi

```
pip install psae
```

Alternatively, you can install from `test environment`
```
pip install --index-url https://test.pypi.org/simple/ --no-deps psae
```

You may wish to use this tool in a virtual environment. You can use the following commands.

```
virtualenv psae_venv
source psae_venv/bin/activate
pip install psae
```

## Quick examples

As an example, the following command extracts every platform-specific APIs from the directory `repository_local`. 
It also saves various information (line, module, filename ...) in `output.csv`. 
Additionally, we can provide information about the project present in the directory provided. 
For this, the parameters `-n` and `-c` can be added to inform the name (`my/local`) and last commit (`da39a3ee5e6b4b0d3255bfef95601890afd80709`) of the project. 
This information will be available in the output file.

```bash
psae repository_local -o output.csv -n my/local --commit da39a3ee5e6b4b0d3255bfef95601890afd80709 
```

Note that the repository does not have to be already cloned, the tool also can fetch it. 
For example, the GitHub repository `https://github.com/ricardojob/psae` will be fetched, saved under the `data/psae` directory.
Note that, by default all projects are cloned to the `data` directory.

```bash
psae https://github.com/ricardojob/psae -o output.csv
```

## Usage

After installation, the `psae` command-line tool should be available in your shell. 
Otherwise, please replace `psae` by `python -m psae`. 
The explanations in the following stays valid in both cases.

You can use `psae` with the following arguments:

```
Usage: psae [OPTIONS] REPOSITORY

  Extract the usage of Platform-Specific APIs from a single Git repository
  `REPOSITORY`. The Git repository can be local or remote. In the latter case,
  it will be pulled locally in the folder `data`. Every extracted Platform-
  Specific APIs will be written in the CSV file given to `-o`, or in the
  standard output if not specified.

  Example of usage: psae myRepository -n myRepositoryName -o output.csv

Options:
  -o, --output FILE           The output CSV file where the usage of Platform-
                              Specific APIs related to the repository will be
                              stored. By default, the information will written
                              to the standard output.
  -c, --commit TEXT           The commit reference (i.e., commit SHA or TAG)
                              to be considered for the extraction.It is
                              important to note that each commit references a
                              local project.
  -n, --repository-name TEXT  The name's project to be considered for the
                              extraction.It is important to note that the name
                              references a local project.
  -h, --help                  Show this message and exit.
```

The CSV file given to `-o` (or that will be written to the standard output by default) will contain the following columns:
- `project_name`: the name of the repository
- `project_hash`: the commit SHA of the commit where the platform-specific APIs file was extracted
- `line`: the line where the platform-specific API usage occurs
- `module`: the module that packages the platform-specific API
- `call`: a short information about of platform-specific API
- `is_test`: a boolean indicating if the file is a test file
- `url`: the URL that represents the API usage on Github

## License

Distributed under [MIT License](https://github.com/ricardojob/psae/blob/main/LICENSE.txt).

## Acknowledgements

The structure of this project was heavily inspired by the [gigawork](https://github.com/cardoeng/gigawork) and [spotflow](https://github.com/andrehora/spotflow) projects.

Commit message:

Its possible choice one configuration (all, OS) or custom file

README.md, after:

[![Tests](https://github.com/ricardojob/psae/actions/workflows/tests.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ricardojob/psae/actions/workflows/tests.yaml)
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/psae)](https://pypi.org/project/psae/)

# PSAE

An automated tool for extracting Platform-Specific API from Git repositories written in Python. 
The `psae` (**P**latform-**S**pecific **A**PI **E**xtract) is primarily designed to be used as a command-line tool. 
With `psae`, you can easily extract information about the Platform-Specific APIs and their usages from the Git repository or directory (only python files are analyzed).
The set of Platform-Specific APIs are saved in a given CSV file.

## Install

The easiest way to install `psae` is to install from Pypi

```
pip install psae
```

Alternatively, you can install from `test environment`
```
pip install --index-url https://test.pypi.org/simple/ --no-deps psae
```

You may wish to use this tool in a virtual environment. You can use the following commands.

```
virtualenv psae_venv
source psae_venv/bin/activate
pip install psae
```

## Quick examples

As an example, the following command extracts every platform-specific APIs from the directory `repository_local`. 
It also saves various information (line, module, filename ...) in `output.csv`. 
Additionally, we can provide information about the project present in the directory provided. 
For this, the parameters `-n` and `-c` can be added to inform the name (`my/local`) and last commit (`da39a3ee5e6b4b0d3255bfef95601890afd80709`) of the project. 
This information will be available in the output file.

```bash
psae repository_local -o output.csv -n my/local --commit da39a3ee5e6b4b0d3255bfef95601890afd80709 
```

Note that the repository does not have to be already cloned, the tool also can fetch it. 
For example, the GitHub repository `https://github.com/ricardojob/psae` will be fetched, saved under the `data/psae` directory.
Note that, by default all projects are cloned to the `data` directory.

```bash
psae https://github.com/ricardojob/psae -o output.csv
```

## Usage

After installation, the `psae` command-line tool should be available in your shell. 
Otherwise, please replace `psae` by `python -m psae`. 
The explanations in the following stays valid in both cases.

You can use `psae` with the following arguments:

```
Usage: psae [OPTIONS] REPOSITORY

  Extract the usage of Platform-Specific APIs from a single Git repository
  `REPOSITORY`. The Git repository can be local or remote. In the latter case,
  it will be pulled locally in the folder `data`. Every extracted Platform-
  Specific APIs will be written in the CSV file given to `-o`, or in the
  standard output if not specified.

  Example of usage: psae myRepository -n myRepositoryName -o output.csv

Options:
  -o, --output FILE           The output CSV file where the usage of Platform-
                              Specific APIs related to the repository will be
                              stored. By default, the information will written
                              to the standard output.
  -c, --commit TEXT           The commit reference (i.e., commit SHA or TAG)
                              to be considered for the extraction.It is
                              important to note that each commit references a
                              local project.
  -n, --repository-name TEXT  The name's project to be considered for the
                              extraction.It is important to note that the name
                              references a local project.
  -p, --platforms [all|OS]    The Platform-specific API group to figure out.
  -f, --filter FILE           The JSON file with the configuration of
                              Platform-Specific APIs that will be filter. By
                              default, this option is mandatory to option
                              --platforms.
  -h, --help                  Show this message and exit.
```

The CSV file given to `-o` (or that will be written to the standard output by default) will contain the following columns:
- `project_name`: the name of the repository
- `project_commit`: the commit SHA of the commit where the platform-specific APIs file was extracted
- `line`: the line where the platform-specific API usage occurs
- `module`: the module that packages the platform-specific API
- `call`: a short information about of platform-specific API
- `is_test`: a boolean indicating if the file is a test file
- `url`: the URL that represents the API usage on Github
- `risk`: the (low or right) risk for this instance

## License

Distributed under [MIT License](https://github.com/ricardojob/psae/blob/main/LICENSE.txt).

## Acknowledgements

The structure of this project was heavily inspired by the [gigawork](https://github.com/cardoeng/gigawork) and [spotflow](https://github.com/andrehora/spotflow) projects.
